Review

Assigned Tutorial Learn Git Branching Based on - Last Name - Thakkar

Branching is the modern version feature in the Git. In this we are using some commands to move from one branch to another.
Git stores branches as a reference to commit and it has two types i.e  Main and Remote.  I completed ‘Main’ task according to the instructions. 
Further ‘Main’ is divided into five parts:-
1.	Introduction Sequence 
2.	Ramping up
3.	Moving work around
4.	A mixed bag
5.	Advanced topics

Introduction Sequence :-   Divided into four parts.

A.	Introduction to Git commits - Git commit usually save changes to the local repository. 
B.	 Branching in Git – It is a pointer to specific commit. 
C.	Merging in Git – Usually it defines merging of two branches. Example :- HEAD and BugFix branch.
D.	 Rebase Introduction – It combines work between branches.

Ramping up : - Divided into four parts.

A.	Detach yo’ HEAD – HEAD points to the recent commit of the working tree.
B.	Relative Refs (^) – It defines the parent of the specified commit.
C.	Relative Refs #2 (~) – In this we can tidle (~) operator to move lot of levels up in the commit tree.
D.	Reversing changes in Git –There are two primary ways to undo changes in Git. 
•	Git reset – It is used to move the current HEAD to the specified commit.
•	Git revert – It is the safest method of undoing changes.

Moving work around :-  Divided into two parts.

A.	Cherry-pick Intro – It copies the series of commits below your current location.
B.	Interactive Rebase Intro – Rebase is the process of moving and combining the series of commits. Rebase is of two modes manual and interactive. In the interactive rebase is the best way of review the series of commit which is going to rebase.

A Mixed Bag :- Divided into five parts.

A.	Grabbing Just 1 Commit – In this we can either use Git cherry-pick or Git rebase to grab one commit.
B.	Juggling Commits – In the we can use git commit –amend and git rebase to give slight modification to our commits.
C.	Juggling Commits #2 – To use this commit we need to do Juggling commit first because in this we need to use Git cherry-pick with the rebase and amend and also need to avoid rebase somewhere.
D.	Git Tags – Git tag is the best way to give permanent mark as a “milestones” to commits.
E.	Git Describe – If we want to move many commits backward or forward then we can use Git describe.

Advanced Topics :-  Divided into three parts.

A.	Rebasing over 9000 times – For multiplying multiple branches we can use rebase for these branches onto main.
B.	Multiple parents – It can be used to merge commits of multiple parents.
C.	Branch Spaghetti – In this we can use rebase to give branches to commits.

Kushal Thakkar :I am a student at Saskatchewan Polytechnic from India.


